---
layout: blog
title: Stoic Quotes
draft: false
date: 2023-09-11T16:31:00.000Z
date_updated: 2023-09-11T16:31:00.000Z
featured_image: /media/uploads/stoicism.jpeg
page_bg: radial-gradient(at 1% 93%, hsla(296,45%,29%,1) 0px, transparent 50%), radial-gradient(at 96% 34%, hsla(328,58%,45%,1) 0px, transparent 50%), radial-gradient(at 80% 100%, hsla(176,85%,50%,1) 0px, transparent 50%), radial-gradient(at 0% 0%, hsla(333,70%,30%,1) 0px, transparent 50%) hsla(229,49%,15%,1)
excerpt: Stoicism is a way of life, a philosophy that advocates living a life well aligned with nature and reality. Often, stoicism is associated with not allowing negative events to affect you.
---
*Image generated by Bing Image Creator based on DALL-E*.

> Focus on what you can control.

> You control how you respond to things. 

> Ask yourself, “Is this essential?” 

> Meditate on your mortality every day.

> Value time more than money/possessions.

> You are the product of your habits.

> Remember you have the power to have no opinion.

> Own the morning.

> Put yourself up for review (Interrogate yourself).

> Don’t suffer imagined troubles.

> Try to see the good in people.

> Never be overheard complaining…even to yourself.

> Two ears, one mouth…for a reason (Zeno)

> There is always something you can do. 

> Don’t compare yourself to others.

> Live as if you’ve died and come back (every minute is bonus time).

> “The best revenge is not to be like that.” Marcus Aurelius

> Be strict with yourself and tolerant with others.

> Put every impression, emotion, to the test before acting on it.

> Learn something from everyone.

> Focus on process, not outcomes.

> Define what success means to you.

> Find a way to love everything that happens (Amor fati).

> Seek out challenges.

> Don’t follow the mob.

> Grab the “smooth handle.”

> Every person is an opportunity for kindness (Seneca)

> Say no (a lot).

> Don’t be afraid to ask for help.

> Find one thing that makes you wiser every day.

> What’s bad for the hive is bad for the bee (Marcus Aurelius)

> Don’t judge other people.

> Study the lives of the greats.

> Forgive, forgive, forgive.

> Make a little progress each day.

> Journal.

> Prepare for life’s inevitable setbacks (premeditatio malorum)

> Look for the poetry in ordinary things.

> To do wrong to one, is to do wrong to yourself. (sympatheia)

> Always choose “Alive Time.”

> Associate only with people that make you better.

> If someone offends you, realize you are complicit in taking offense. 

> Fate behaves as she pleases…do not forget this. 

> Possessions are yours only in trust.

> Don’t make your problems worse by bemoaning them.

> Accept success without arrogance, handle failure with indifference. 

> Courage. Temperance. Justice. Wisdom. (Always).

> The obstacle is the way.

> Ego is the enemy.

> Stillness is the key.


From [Ryan Holiday](https://ryanholiday.net/50-short-rules-for-life-from-the-stoics/) via [Tina Roth Eisenberg (SwissMiss)](https://www.swiss-miss.com/2023/09/50-short-rules-for-a-better-life-from-the-stoics.html)
